HOW GOES THE NIGHT, BOY?
THE MOON IS DOWN. I HAVE NOT HEARD THE CLOCK.
AND SHE GOES DOWN AT 12:00.
I TAKE'T, 'TIS LATER, SIR.
HOLD.
TAKE MY SWORD.
THERE'S HUSBANDRY IN HEAVEN.
THEIR CANDLES ARE ALL OUT.
TAKE THEE THAT TOO.
A HEAVY SUMMONS LIES LIKE LEAD UPON ME,
AND YET I WOULD NOT SLEEP.
MERCIFUL POWERS, RESTRAIN IN ME THE CURSED THOUGHTS
THAT NATURE GIVES WAY TO IN REPOSE.
[faint banging noise]
GIVE ME MY SWORD.
WHO'S THERE?
[laughing]
A FRIEND.
WHAT, SIR, NOT YET AT REST?
THE KING'S ABED.
HE HATH BEEN IN UNUSUAL PLEASURE,
AND SENT FORTH GREAT LARGESS TO YOUR OFFICES.
THIS DIAMOND HE GREETS YOUR WIFE WITHAL,
BY THE NAME OF MOST KIND HOSTESS,
AND SHUT UP IN MEASURELESS CONTENT.
BEING UNPREPARED,
OUR WILL BECAME THE SERVANT TO DEFECT,
WHICH ELSE SHOULD FREE HAVE WROUGHT.
ALL'S WELL.
I DREAMT LAST NIGHT OF THE THREE WEIRD SISTERS.
TO YOU THEY HAVE SHOWED SOME TRUTH.
I THINK NOT OF THEM.
YET WHEN WE CAN ENTREAT AN HOUR TO SERVE,
WE WOULD SPEND IT
IN SOME WORDS UPON THAT BUSINESS,
IF YOU WOULD GRANT THE TIME.
AT YOUR KIND'ST LEISURE.
IF YOU SHALL CLEAVE TO MY CONSENT,
WHEN 'TIS, IT SHALL MAKE HONOR FOR YOU.
SO I LOSE NONE IN SEEKING TO AUGMENT IT,
BUT STILL KEEP MY BOSOM FRANCHISED
AND ALLEGIANCE CLEAR,
I SHALL BE COUNSELED.
GOOD REPOSE THE WHILE.
THANKS, SIR. THE LIKE TO YOU.
GO BID THY MISTRESS, WHEN MY DRINK IS READY,
SHE STRIKE UPON THE BELL.
GET THEE TO BED.
[thunder rumbling]
IS THIS A DAGGER WHICH I SEE BEFORE ME,
THE HANDLE TOWARD MY HAND?
COME,
LET ME CLUTCH THEE.
I HAVE THEE NOT,
AND YET I SEE THEE STILL.
ART THOU NOT, FATAL VISION, SENSIBLE TO FEELING AS TO SIGHT?
OR ART THOU BUT A DAGGER OF THE MIND,
A FALSE CREATION PROCEEDING FROM THE HEAT-OPPRESSED BRAIN?
I SEE THEE YET,
IN FORM AS PALPABLE AS THIS WHICH NOW I DRAW.
THOU MARSHAL'ST ME THE WAY THAT I WAS GOING,
AND SUCH AN INSTRUMENT I WAS TO USE.
MINE EYES ARE MADE THE FOOLS O' THE OTHER SENSES,
OR ELSE...
WORTH ALL THE REST.
I SEE THEE STILL,
AND ON MY BLADE AND DUDGEON GOUTS OF BLOOD,
WHICH WAS NOT SO BEFORE.
[gasps]
THERE'S NO SUCH THING.
IT IS THE BLOODY BUSINESS WHICH INFORMS THUS TO MINE EYES.
NOW O'ER THE ONE HALF WORLD NATURE SEEMS DEAD,
AND WICKED DREAMS ABUSE THE CURTAINED SLEEP.
WITCHCRAFT CELEBRATES PALE HECAT'S OFFERINGS,
AND WITHERED MURDER, ALARUMED BY HIS SENTINEL, THE WOLF,
WHOSE HOWL'S HIS WATCH,
THUS WITH THIS STEALTHY PACE, WITH TARQUIN'S RAVISHING STRIDE,
TOWARD HIS DESIGN MOVES LIKE A GHOST.
THOU SURE AND FIRM-SET EARTH, HEAR NOT MY STEPS,
WHICH WAY THEY WALK,
FOR FEAR THE VERY STONES PRATE OF MY WHEREABOUT;
AND TAKE THE PRESENT HORROR FROM THE TIME,
WHICH NOW SUITS WITH IT.
WHILES I THREAT, HE LIVES.
[bell rings]
I GO, AND IT IS DONE.
THE BELL INVITES ME.
HEAR IT NOT, DUNCAN,
FOR IT IS A KNELL THAT SUMMONS THEE TO HEAVEN...
OR TO HELL.
[breathing heavily]
THAT WHICH HATH MADE THEM DRUNK HATH MADE ME BOLD.
WHAT HATH QUENCHED THEM HATH GIVEN ME FIRE.
[bird screeches]
HARK!
[gasping]
PEACE.
IT WAS THE OWL THAT SHRIEKED, THE FATAL BELLMAN,
WHICH GIVES THE STERN'ST GOOD NIGHT.
HE IS ABOUT IT.
THE DOORS ARE OPEN,
MOCK THEIR CHARGE WITH SNORES.
I HAVE DRUGGED THEIR POSSETS,
THAT DEATH AND NATURE DO CONTEND ABOUT THEM,
WHETHER THEY LIVE OR DIE.
(man) WHO'S THERE?
ALACK, I AM AFRAID THEY HAVE AWAKED AND 'TIS NOT DONE.
THE ATTEMPT AND NOT THE DEED CONFOUNDS US.
[bird screeches]
HARK.
I LAID THEIR DAGGERS READY.
HE COULD NOT MISS 'EM.
HAD HE NOT RESEMBLED MY FATHER AS HE SLEPT,  I  HAD DONE 'T.
MY HUSBAND.
I HAVE DONE THE DEED.
DIDST THOU NOT HEAR A NOISE?
I HEARD THE OWL SCREAM AND THE CRICKETS CRY.
DID NOT YOU SPEAK?
WHEN?
NOW.
AS I DESCENDED?
AYE.
[gasps]
WHO LIES I' THE SECOND CHAMBER?
DONALBAIN.
THIS IS A SORRY SIGHT.
FOOLISH THOUGHT, TO SAY A SORRY SIGHT.
THERE'S ONE DID LAUGH IN 'S SLEEP,
AND ONE CRIED, "MURDER!"
THAT THEY DID WAKE EACH OTHER. I STOOD AND HEARD THEM.
BUT THEN THEY DID SAY THEIR PRAYERS
AND ADDRESS THEM AGAIN TO SLEEP.
THERE ARE TWO LODGED TOGETHER.
ONE CRIED, "GOD BLESS US!" AND, "AMEN," THE OTHER,
AS THEY HAD SEEN ME WITH THESE HANGMAN'S HANDS.
LISTENING THEIR FEAR, I COULD NOT SAY "AMEN"
WHEN THEY DID SAY "GOD BLESS US!"
CONSIDER IT NOT SO DEEPLY.
BUT WHEREFORE COULD I NOT PRONOUNCE "AMEN"?
I HAD MOST NEED OF BLESSING.
"AMEN" STUCK IN MY THROAT.
THESE DEEDS MUST NOT BE THOUGHT AFTER THESE WAYS.
SO IT WILL MAKE US MAD.
METHOUGHT I HEARD A VOICE CRY, "SLEEP NO MORE!
MACBETH DOES MURDER SLEEP!"
THE INNOCENT SLEEP.
SLEEP THAT KNITS UP THE RAVELED SLEEVE OF CARE,
THE DEATH OF EACH DAY'S LIFE, SORE LABOR'S BATH,
BALM OF HURT MINDS, GREAT NATURE'S SECOND COURSE,
CHIEF NOURISHER IN LIFE'S FEAST.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
STILL IT CRIED, "SLEEP NO MORE!"
TO ALL THE HOUSE.
"GLAMIS HATH MURDERED SLEEP.
"THEREFORE CAWDOR SHALL SLEEP NO MORE.
MACBETH SHALL SLEEP NO MORE!"
WHO WAS IT THAT THUS CRIED?
WHY, WORTHY THANE,
YOU DO UNBEND YOUR NOBLE STRENGTH
TO THINK SO BRAINSICKLY OF THINGS?
GO, GET SOME WATER
AND WASH THIS FILTHY WITNESS FROM YOUR HANDS.
WHY DID YOU BRING THESE DAGGERS
FROM THE PLACE?
THEY MUST LIE THERE!
GO, CARRY THEM,
AND SMEAR THE SLEEPY GROOMS WITH BLOOD.
I'LL GO NO MORE.
I AM AFRAID TO THINK WHAT I HAVE DONE.
LOOK ON 'T AGAIN I DARE NOT.
INFIRM OF PURPOSE!
GIVE ME THE DAGGERS.
THE SLEEPING AND THE DEAD ARE BUT AS PICTURES.
'TIS THE EYE OF CHILDHOOD THAT FEARS A PAINTED DEVIL.
IF HE DO BLEED,
I'LL GUILD THE FACES OF THE GROOMS WITHAL,
FOR IT MUST SEEM THEIR GUILT.
[knocking at door]
WHENCE IS THAT KNOCKING?
HOW IS IT WITH ME WHEN EVERY NOISE APPALS ME?
[shudders]
WHAT HANDS ARE HERE?
HA.  THEY PLUCK OUT MINE EYES.
WILL ALL GREAT NEPTUNE'S OCEAN
WASH THIS BLOOD CLEAN FROM MY HAND?
NO.
THIS MY HAND WILL RATHER THE MULTITUDINOUS SEAS INCARNADINE,
MAKING THE GREEN ONE RED.
MY HANDS ARE OF YOUR COLOR,
BUT I SHAME TO WEAR A HEART SO WHITE!
[knocking]
I HEAR A KNOCKING AT THE SOUTH ENTRY.
RETIRE WE TO OUR CHAMBER.
A LITTLE WATER CLEARS US OF THIS DEED.
HOW EASY IS IT, THEN.
YOUR CONSTANCY HATH LEFT YOU UNATTENDED.
[knocking]
HARK, MORE KNOCKING.
GET ON YOUR NIGHTGOWN,
LEST OCCASION CALL AND SHOW US TO BE WATCHERS.
BE NOT LOST SO POORLY IN YOUR THOUGHTS.
TO KNOW MY DEED,
'TWERE BEST NOT KNOW MYSELF.
[knocking]
WAKE DUNCAN WITH THY KNOCKING!
I WOULD THOU COULDST.
[knocking]
HERE'S A KNOCKIN' INDEED.
IF A MAN WERE PORTER OF HELL GATE,
HE SHOULD HAVE OLD TURNIN' THE KEY.
[knocking]
KNOCK, KNOCK, KNOCK.
WHO'S THERE, I' THE NAME OF BEELZEBUB?
HERE'S A FARMER THAT HANGED HIMSELF
ON THE EXPECTATION OF PLENTY.
COME IN TIME,
HAVE NAPKINS ENOW ABOUT YOU; HERE YOU'LL SWEAT FOR IT.
[knocking]
KNOCK, KNOCK!
WHO'S THERE, IN TH' OTHER DEVIL'S NAME?
FAITH, HERE'S AN EQUIVOCATOR,
THAT COULD SWEAR IN BOTH THE SCALES AGAINST EITHER SCALE,
WHO COMMITTED TREASON ENOUGH FOR GOD'S SAKE,
YET COULD NOT EQUIVOCATE TO HEAVEN.
OH, COME IN, EQUIVOCATOR.
KNOCK, KNOCK, KNOCK!
WHO'S THERE?
FAITH, HERE'S AN ENGLISH TAILOR COME HITHER,
FOR STEALING OUT OF A FRENCH HOSE!
OH, COME IN, TAILOR!
HERE YOU MAY ROAST YOUR GOOSE.
KNOCK, KNOCK, NEVER AT QUIET?
WHAT ARE YOU?
THIS PLACE IS TOO COLD FOR HELL.
I'LL DEVIL-PORTER IT NO FURTHER.
I HAD THOUGHT TO HAVE LET IN SOME OF ALL PROFESSIONS
THAT GO THE PRIMROSE WAY TO EVERLASTING BONFIRE.
ANON, ANON!
I PRAY YOU REMEMBER THE PORTER!
WAS IT SO LATE, FRIEND,
ERE YOU WENT TO BED, THAT YOU DO LIE SO LATE?
FAITH, SIR, WE WERE CAROUSING TILL THE SECOND COCK!
AND DRINK, SIR, IS A GREAT PROVOKER OF THREE THINGS!
WHAT THREE THINGS DOES DRINK ESPECIALLY PROVOKE?
MARRY, SIR, NOSE-PAINTING, SLEEP, AND URINE.
LECHERY, SIR, IT PROVOKES AND UNPROVOKES.
IT PROVOKES THE DESIRE,
BUT IT TAKES AWAY THE PERFORMANCE, SIR.
THEREFORE MUCH DRINK MAY BE SAID
TO BE AN EQUIVOCATOR WITH LECHERY.
IT MAKES HIM AND IT MARS HIM,
IT SETS HIM ON AND IT TAKES HIM OFF,
IT PERSUADES HIM AND DISHEARTENS HIM,
MAKES HIM STAND TO AND NOT STAND TO;
IN CONCLUSION,
EQUIVOCATES HIM IN A SLEEP,
AND GIVIN' HIM THE LIE, LEAVES HIM.
I BELIEVE DRINK GAVE THEE THE LIE.
THAT IT DID, SIR, I' THE VERY THROAT ON ME.
BUT I REQUITED HIM FOR HIS LIE,
AND, I THINK, BEING TOO STRONG FOR HIM,
THOUGH HE TOOK UP MY LEGS SOMETIME,
YET I MADE A SHIFT TO CAST HIM.
IS THY MASTER STIRRING?
[faint clanking noise]
OUR KNOCKING HAS AWAKED HIM.
HERE HE COMES.
GOOD MORROW, NOBLE SIR.
GOOD MORROW, BOTH.
IS THE KING STIRRING, WORTHY THANE?
NOT YET.
HE DID COMMAND ME TO CALL TIMELY ON HIM.
I HAVE ALMOST SLIPPED THE HOUR.
I'LL BRING YOU TO HIM.
I KNOW THIS IS A JOYFUL TROUBLE TO YOU,
BUT YET 'TIS ONE.
THE LABOR WE DELIGHT IN PHYSICS PAIN.
THIS IS THE DOOR.
I'LL MAKE SO BOLD TO CALL, FOR 'TIS MY LIMITED SERVICE.
GOES THE KING HENCE TODAY?
HE DOES. HE DID APPOINT SO.
THE NIGHT HAS BEEN UNRULY.
WHERE WE LAY, OUR CHIMNEYS WERE BLOWN DOWN,
AND, AS THEY SAY,  LAMENTINGS HEARD I' THE AIR,
STRANGE SCREAMS OF DEATH,
AND PROPHESYING WITH ACCENTS TERRIBLE
OF DIRE COMBUSTION AND CONFUSED EVENTS
NEW-HATCHED TO THE WOEFUL TIME.
THE OBSCURE BIRD CLAMORED THE LIVELONG NIGHT.
SOME SAY THE EARTH WAS FEVEROUS AND DID SHAKE.
'TWAS A ROUGH NIGHT.
MY YOUNG REMEMBRANCE CANNOT PARALLEL A FELLOW TO IT.
HORROR.
HORROR.  HORROR!
TONGUE NOR HEART CANNOT CONCEIVE NOR NAME THEE!
(both) WHAT'S THE MATTER?
CONFUSION NOW HATH MADE HIS MASTERPIECE!
MOST SACRILEGIOUS MURDER
HATH BROKE OPE THE LORD'S ANOINTED TEMPLE,
AND STOLE THENCE THE LIFE O' THE BUILDING!
WHAT IS IT YOU SAY?
HIS MAJESTY?
APPROACH THE CHAMBER,
AND DESTROY YOUR SIGHTS WITH A NEW GORGON.
DO NOT BID ME SPEAK!
SEE, THEN SPEAK YOURSELVES.
AWAKE, AWAKE! RING THE ALARUM BELL!
MURDER, TREASON!
BANQUO AND DONALBAIN! MALCOLM!  AWAKE!
SHAKE OFF THIS DOWNY SLEEP, DEATH'S COUNTERFEIT,
AND LOOK ON DEATH ITSELF!
UP, UP AND SEE THE GREAT DOOM'S IMAGE!
MALCOLM AND BANQUO!
AS FROM YOUR GRAVES RISE UP AND WALK LIKE SPRITES,
TO COUNTENANCE THIS HORROR.
RING THE BELL!
[bell ringing]
WHAT'S THE BUSINESS,
THAT SUCH A TRUMPET CALLS TO PARLEY THE SLEEPERS?
SPEAK, SPEAK!
GENTLE LADY,
'TIS NOT FOR YOU TO HEAR WHAT I CAN SPEAK.
THE REPETITION, IN A WOMAN'S EAR,
WOULD MURDER AS IT FELL.
O BANQUO, BANQUO!
OUR ROYAL MASTER'S MURDERED!
WHAT, IN OUR HOUSE?
TOO CRUEL ANYWHERE!
DEAR DUFF, I PRITHEE, CONTRADICT THYSELF,
AND SAY 'TIS NOT SO.
HAD I BUT DIED AN HOUR BEFORE THIS CHANCE,
I HAD LIVED A BLESSED TIME,
FOR FROM THIS INSTANT
THERE'S NOTHING SERIOUS IN MORTALITY.
ALL IS BUT TOYS.
RENOWN AND GRACE IS DEAD.
THE WINE OF LIFE IS DRAWN,
AND THE MERE LEES IS LEFT TO BRAG OF.
WHAT IS AMISS?
YOU ARE, AND DO NOT KNOW 'T.
THE SPRING, THE HEAD,
THE FOUNTAIN OF YOUR BLOOD IS STOPPED.
THE VERY SOURCE IS STOPPED.
YOUR ROYAL FATHER'S MURDERED.
BY WHOM?
THOSE OF HIS CHAMBER HAD DONE 'T.
THEIR HANDS AND FACES WERE ALL BADGED WITH BLOOD.
SO WERE THEIR DAGGERS,
WHICH UNWIPED WE FOUND UPON THEIR PILLOWS.
THEY STARED AND WERE DISTRACTED.
NO MAN'S LIFE WAS TO BE TRUSTED WITH THEM.
I DO REPENT ME OF MY FURY, THAT I DID KILL THEM.
WHEREFORE DID YOU SO?
WHO CAN BE WISE,
AMAZED, TEMPERATE AND FURIOUS,
LOYAL AND NEUTRAL, IN A MOMENT?
NO MAN!
THE EXPEDITION OF MY VIOLENT LOVE
OUTRUN THE PAUSER REASON.
HERE LAY DUNCAN,
HIS SILVER SKIN LACED WITH HIS GOLDEN BLOOD,
AND HIS GASHED STABS LOOKED
LIKE A BREACH IN NATURE  FOR RUIN'S WASTEFUL ENTRY.
THERE, THE MURDERERS,
STEEPED IN THE COLORS OF THEIR TRADE,
THEIR DAGGERS BREECHED WITH GORE.
WHO COULD REFRAIN THAT HAD A HEART TO LOVE,
AND IN THAT HEART COURAGE TO MAKE HIS LOVE KNOWN?
HELP ME HENCE, HO!
LOOK TO THE LADY.
WHY DO WE HOLD OUR TONGUES
THAT MOST MAY CLAIM THIS ARGUMENT FOR OURS?
WHAT SHOULD BE SPOKEN HERE, WHERE OUR FATE,
HID IN AN AUGER HOLE, MAY RUSH AND SEIZE US?
LET'S AWAY.
OUR TEARS ARE NOT YET BREWED.
NOR OUR STRONG SORROW UPON THE FOOT OF MOTION.
(Banquo) LOOK TO THE LADY.
AND WHEN WE HAVE OUR NAKED FRAILTIES HID,
THAT SUFFER IN EXPOSURE,
LET US MEET AND QUESTION
THIS MOST BLOODY PIECE OF WORK,
TO KNOW IT FURTHER.
FEARS AND SCRUPLES SHAKE US.
IN THE GREAT HAND OF GOD I STAND
AND THENCE, AGAINST THE UNDIVULGED PRETENCE,
I FIGHT OF TREASONOUS MALICE.
AND SO DO I.
(all) SO DO ALL.
LET'S BRIEFLY PUT ON MANLY READINESS,
AND MEET I' THE HALL TOGETHER.
(all) WELL CONTENTED.
WHAT WILL YOU DO?
LET'S NOT CONSORT WITH THEM.
TO SHOW AN UNFELT SORROW IS AN OFFICE
WHICH THE FALSE MAN DOES EASY.
I'LL TO ENGLAND.
TO IRELAND, I.
OUR SEPARATED FORTUNES SHALL KEEP US BOTH THE SAFER.
WHERE WE ARE THERE'S DAGGERS IN MEN'S SMILES.
THE NEAR IN BLOOD, THE NEARER BLOODY.
THIS MURDEROUS SHAFT HATH NOT YET LIGHTED,
AND THE SAFEST WAY IS TO AVOID THE AIM.
THEREFORE, TO HORSE,
AND LET US NOT BE DAINTY OF LEAVE-TAKING,
BUT SHIFT AWAY.
THERE'S WARRANT IN THAT THEFT WHICH STEALS ITSELF
WHEN THERE'S NO MERCY LEFT.
THREESCORE AND TEN I CAN REMEMBER WELL,
WITHIN THE VOLUME OF WHICH TIME
I HAVE SEEN HOURS DREADFUL AND THINGS STRANGE,
BUT THIS SORE NIGHT HATH TRIFLED FORMER KNOWINGS.
AH, GOOD FATHER,
THOU SEEST THE HEAVENS,
AS TROUBLED WITH MAN'S ACT, THREATENS HIS BLOODY STAGE.
BY THE CLOCK 'TIS DAY,
AND YET DARK NIGHT STRANGLES THE TRAVELING LAMP.
IS 'T NIGHT'S PREDOMINANCE, OR THE DAY'S SHAME,
THAT DARKNESS DOES THE FACE OF EARTH ENTOMB
WHEN LIVING LIGHT SHOULD KISS IT?
'TIS UNNATURAL, EVEN LIKE THE DEED THAT'S DONE.
ON TUESDAY LAST A FALCON TOWERING IN HER PRIDE OF PLACE
WAS BY A MOUSING OWL HAWKED AT AND KILLED.
AND DUNCAN'S HORSES--
A THING MOST STRANGE AND CERTAIN--
BEAUTEOUS AND SWIFT, THE MINIONS OF THEIR RACE,
TURNED WILD IN NATURE, BROKE THEIR STALLS, FLUNG OUT,
CONTENDING 'GAINST OBEDIENCE,
AS THEY WOULD MAKE WAR WITH MANKIND.
'TIS SAID THEY EAT EACH OTHER.
THEY DID SO,
TO THE AMAZEMENT OF MINE EYES,
THAT LOOKED UPON 'T.
HERE COMES THE GOOD MACDUFF.
HOW GOES THE WORLD, SIR, NOW?
WHY, SEE YOU NOT?
IS 'T KNOWN WHO DID THIS MORE THAN BLOODY DEED?
THOSE THAT MACBETH HATH SLAIN.
ALAS THE DAY.
WHAT GOOD COULD THEY PRETEND?
THEY WERE SUBORNED.
MALCOLM AND DONALBAIN, THE KING'S TWO SONS,
ARE STOL'N AWAY AND FLED,
WHICH PUTS UPON THEM SUSPICION OF THE DEED.
'GAINST NATURE STILL.
THRIFTLESS AMBITION,
THAT WILT RAVIN UP THINE OWN LIFE'S MEANS.
THEN 'TIS MOST LIKE THE SOVEREIGNTY
WILL FALL UPON MACBETH.
HE IS ALREADY NAMED,
AND GONE TO SCONE TO BE INVESTED.
WHERE IS DUNCAN'S BODY?
CARRIED TO COLMEKILL,
THE SACRED STOREHOUSE OF HIS PREDECESSORS
AND GUARDIAN OF THEIR BONES.
WILL YOU TO SCONE?
NO, COUSIN. I'LL TO FIFE.
WELL...
I WILL THITHER.
WELL MAY YOU SEE THINGS WELL DONE THERE.
ADIEU,
LEST OUR OLD ROBES SIT EASIER THAN OUR NEW.
FAREWELL, FATHER.
GOD'S BENISON GO WITH YOU,
AND WITH THOSE THAT WOULD MAKE GOOD OF BAD AND FRIENDS OF FOES.